I am a Briton in Florida, which means I use a huge amount of sunscreen
to make sure that I do not become as red as a lobster.
But here's something you might not know: the SPF factor on sunscreen,
that 50 here, in this case - because I am very pale - was originally intended as a factor.
The idea was ... if you burned without sunscreen in 10 minutes,
then it would multiply that time by a factor of 50; you can endure it for 500 minutes in the burning sun
before you would actually be burned.
Well, the point is: that is not really true, because sunscreen is a lot more complicated than that;
it requires differences depending on skin color, on all kinds of things,
of your personal response.
Unless the sunscreen is broad-spectrum, like this one, it does not defend you against the more damaging effects,
the long-term effects, in addition to the occurrence of becoming red.
So, how do they test it?
Well, the way they do that is quite interesting. The FDA in the US
in this case - the Food and Drug Administration - required
an "in vivo" test. That means that the test must be done on a living volunteer,
which probably means that someone has rubbed one arm with sunscreen
and the other not, after which they are placed under a solar simulator until they burn to see what happens.
And even though it can, technically, reach a factor of 100-200
the FDA does not require more than 50. In Australia this is not even more than 30,
because everything up there is considered confusing to people
who think they can apply sunscreen and stay outside all day without risk of skin cancer.
So, to summarize: Sun Protection Factor, especially a lot of nonsense,
but you still have to rub yourself because otherwise,
Well, then you look like I'll probably see in a few hours.
And that...
ARGH!
Oh yes, and do not let it come to your eyes!
OH! Which...
[Translation: Niels de Groot]